# Chapter 1

**1-3**
> 1 The words of Jeremiah the son of Hilkiah, of the priests who were in Anathoth in the land of Benjamin, 2 to whom the word of the Lord came in the days of Josiah the son of Amon, king of Judah, in the thirteenth year of his reign. 3 It came also in the days of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, until the end of the eleventh year of Zedekiah the son of Josiah, king of Judah, until the carrying away of Jerusalem captive in the fifth month.

- Jeremiah was part of the priesthood.
- The priesthood was corrupt.
- The nation was split
- Josiah was one of the greatest kings of the southern kindgdom of Judah
  - during his reign he lead the nation in revival
  - people obeyed and followed because he was the king. Their hearts weren't necessarily changed
- There is no recorded account of a convert in his 40 year ministry
  - No fruit to his ministry.
  - Jeremiah's problem wasn't fruitfulness. It was faithfulness.
    - Well done good and "faithful" servant. NOT fruitful

- Jeremiah was born during the reign of Manasseh who was one of the worst kings
  - People being murdered on the streets
  - Children being offered as sacrifice to idols
  - He was born in that wickedness

**4-5**
> The Prophet Is Called
> 4 Then the word of the Lord came to me, saying:
>
> 5 “Before I formed you in the womb I knew you;  
> Before you were born I sanctified you;  
> I ordained you a prophet to the nations.”

- Jeremiah was called by God before his hearing of the Word
  - He was known by God and the calling was already
  - "Sanctified" - to be set aside unto the work of God, unto God

- God knows you before you are formed, and what he wants for your life.
  - "We are all going to die, we might as well die for Christ". - Voice of the Martyrs (Video)
- Everyone of us will come to a place where we will doubt God's plan and place for our life.
  - How can we grow to be more like Christ without going through hardships, trials, and missteps
  - We come into the world with a plan of God attached to our lives.

**6**
> 6 Then said I:
>
> “Ah, Lord God!
> Behold, I cannot speak, for I am a youth.”

- Jeremiah says...NOPE! He is not an eager prophet.
- He says he cannot speak, does not have the talent, the gift, or special abilities.
  - A Rebuttal by many servants of God.
    - Similar to Moses "I have a stutter"...ok, I'll send Aaron with you
    - Gideon: I'm the least of my family, the least of my tribe
    - It's the first thing you and I would feel. I don't have it in me to do what you are calling me to do.
- God's callings are his enablings, no matter what talent we have
- We should never let our lack of natural talent be an excuse to obeying what God is calling us to.

- Jeremiah is thought to be between 16 and 25 years of age.
  - You will never have enough experience and feel like you are worthy to carry the responsibility to preach the Gospel.
  - Sometimes God calls us to do something, and we are in way over our head
  - The issue isnt your age, or talent...it's God's message.

**7-10**
> 7 But the Lord said to me:
>
>   “Do not say, ‘I am a youth,’
>   For you shall go to all to whom I send you,
>   And whatever I command you, you shall speak.
>   8 Do not be afraid of their faces,
>   For I am with you to deliver you,” says the Lord.
>
> 9 Then the Lord put forth His hand and touched my mouth, and the Lord said to me:
>
>   “Behold, I have put My words in your mouth.
>   10 See, I have this day set you over the nations and over the kingdoms,
>   To root out and to pull down,
>   To destroy and to throw down,
>   To build and to plant.”


- Judah was so morally and spiritually corrupt, the only God could do was to tear it down to the foundation in order to build something new or plant something new.
  - God never tears down without a plan to build up and bless.

**11**
> 11 Moreover the word of the Lord came to me, saying, “Jeremiah, what do you see?”
>
> And I said, “I see a branch of an almond tree.”

- Other translations have "awakening tree",
  - In Israel, the almond tree is call the awakening tree because in its climate, it begins to flower and bud in January and it's the earliest plant of it's type to start that process. It's an indication to the whole nation that a new season is beginning.

> 12 Then the Lord said to me, “You have seen well, for I am ready to perform My word.”

- There's going to be a change of season. We are moving into a season of judgement.

> 13 And the word of the Lord came to me the second time, saying, “What do you see?”
>
> And I said, “I see a boiling pot, and it is facing away from the north.”

- God is giving Jeremiah visions.
- In battle at the gates of city, seeing a boiling pot above you would be alarming.

**14-16**
> 14 Then the Lord said to me:
>
> “Out of the north calamity shall break forth
> On all the inhabitants of the land.
> 15 For behold, I am calling
> All the families of the kingdoms of the north,” says the Lord;
> “They shall come and each one set his throne
> At the entrance of the gates of Jerusalem,
> Against all its walls all around,
> And against all the cities of Judah.
> 16 I will utter My judgments
> Against them concerning all their wickedness,
> Because they have forsaken Me,
> Burned incense to other gods,
> And worshiped the works of their own hands.

- And the Lord gives the interpretation of the visions.
  - Babylon is going to invade Judah from the North.
- Reasons for the judgement
  * Wickedness and forsaking God
  * Burning incense to other gods
  * Worshiped the works of their own making


> 17 “Therefore prepare yourself and arise,
> And speak to them all that I command you.
> Do not be dismayed before their faces,
> Lest I dismay you before them.

- Old King James - "Therefore gird up your loins and arise"
  - "Let's get going..."
- Don't stop delivering my message just because of the look on their faces or I will embarrass you

**18-19**
> 18 For behold, I have made you this day
> A fortified city and an iron pillar,
> And bronze walls against the whole land—
> Against the kings of Judah,
> Against its princes,
> Against its priests,
> And against the people of the land.
> 19 They will fight against you,
> But they shall not prevail against you.
> For I am with you,” says the Lord, “to deliver you.”

- Jeremiah has God's protection.
  - He is undefeatable.
- The promise of God's presence is always the guarantee of success.


**What is God calling you to?**


## Reference
1. Calvary Chapel Modesto http://www.ccmodesto.com/
  1. [Nov 6, 2016 PM Service - Jeremiah 1:1-19](https://vimeo.com/190798846)

